Hello, my name is Ruben and it's an honor for me to be able to share today's message takeaway. We'll be looking at the book of Mark chapter 8 verse 22 through 38.
And we'll be looking at this idea about Jesus being the God who gives sight. Right.
And I want to let you think about that settling it into your mind for a second. The God of
who gives side. I don't know about you, but I can remember the first time that I looked at a book or I was looking at a sign and I realized I had to squint.
It's almost like I took my site for granted until...
> i was not able to get a job. I was not able to get a job. It was being taken away from me or it was being reduced. I realized how important sight was to me. I remember in college i had a friend who was legally blind
blind.
and he would often utilize me to get from point a to point b, but until it happened to me, i wasn't aware of how critical and how important.
And so in today's Bible study, we are looking at a man who was brought to Jesus who was blind.
And as he was brought to Jesus, Jesus literally prayed for him, put spit on his eyes, put his hand on his eyes, and then we see, the Bible says in Acts 13,
2010 and chapter 8 verse 22 that he received a level of sight and
And when Jesus asked him, hey, are you able to see? The man responds and says, I see men like trees who are walking around. And then we see later in the verses that
Verses that in verse 25, that Jesus again prayed for him and he received another level of healing where he was able to see clearly. And I don't know about you, but I saw...
25, we saw coming out of this passage in verse 25, how Jesus, he never does things the same, right?
And I don't know about you, but often in my life, I look for these patterns. It's almost like,
My relationship with Jesus often drives me to religiosity. Religiosity, a program or a way to see scripture, it's almost like the process or maybe
Maybe the task list?
that leads us to relationship with Christ and our Savior is not like that. He wants relationship with us. It's almost as if our minds tend to
10s toward religion, but he wants to be in relationship with us. And because he never does things the same, he
In our desperation,
It ought to drive us to dependence on him. What do I mean by that? In the midst of our desire to know him more, it's supposed to drive us to dependence, relationship with him.
And so I want you to think today about your relationship with the Lord.
Is there an element of it being stale today?
Is there an element with which maybe the way that you relate to him, maybe through devotions or through your prayer time, that it's become a little different? Or maybe it's become a little bit old?
a little bit old or maybe just happenstance where you maybe rot a bed and find some time with him. But yet it's not a fervent time with him or maybe it's not a deep
A deep time with him. I know there's this verse in James 1, verse 22. The Bible says that we should be doers of the word and not mere hearers only. And I love that verse.
of that verse because it reminds me that I ought to be a re-creator of the Word of God. It's supposed to be living, it's supposed to be active in my life, but so many times it
It can be regular, it can be average.
So I want you to think about this with me. Where in my life do I need a fresh touch from him? Where in my life do I need to become active again? And again, I'm not talking about
I'm not talking about the religion part of it. I'm not talking about the task list. I'm not talking about the legalistic list. What I'm talking about is relationship with him. I know for me,
When I take time,
To go on a walk early in the morning or the evening to just spend time with him.
I don't got my list. I don't have my list of wants or my list of hopes. I just want to spend time with him.
I've got a favorite spot that I go.
on my walks with the Lord and maybe you have that favorite spot as well.
When's the last time you took a walk with the Lord?
maybe your private worship, maybe you got your favorite spotify playlist and you're out with your earbuds in and and and you're able to sing.
To the Lord and just worship him.
Maybe it's your devotional pattern. Maybe you've gotten used to
uh to maybe the the couple of minutes time with him and and there are times where we've got to rely upon that right maybe you've woken up late or you had a late night and you've got to get a few minutes of the lord but we'll.
But when we rely upon that few minutes, it can sometimes turn into a shallow relationship with him.
I know for me, when I meditate on the Word of God, not just read it,
quickly in the morning, but when I spend time meditating,
I see him in a different way.
So how is your relationship with the Lord? I can go on and on. I'm sure you could too. Of the things that you do to relate to Him or the things that we rely upon to understand and know Him better, but how
But how is your relationship with the Lord?
Because he never does things the same.
He wants to relate to you in a fresh and a new way. There's a second thing that I pulled out of that interaction with the blind man and Jesus, and that is that there was a progressive healing in his heart.
22, and his life. What do I mean by that? In verse 22, we see that he saw things a certain way. And then later in the chapter, we saw that he had a full human.
Healing.
It was almost as if
He was able to see more clearly the second time that the Lord prayed for him. And we don't see that often in scripture. In fact, that may be the only place that we see a progressive healing. And it made me think about
Think about the times in my life where I see things a certain way today, but as I grow in my relationship with the Lord, I begin to see them differently.
In a more clear way.
What about your life? Where are your blind spots?
Are there areas where you've been walking with the Lord and...
and maybe somebody has come to you and said hey you know.
The way that you relate to your spouse, it needs to change.
Or maybe you've had a friend that said to you, hey, the way that you're speaking to your child,
or your your your son or your daughter it needs to develop because you seem frustrated or angry.
Or maybe you spend some time in your daily devotional habits and
And you've asked the Lord, God, open my eyes because I feel like I'm blind in this area. We all,
have blind spots. We are all broken people.
Humans where we are trying to
I ask the Lord, God, give me wisdom with the way that my life is being led today.
You see, in the same way that this...
man had a progressive healing.
we need progressive healings in our life as well. Peter, later in this chapter in verse 29, the word describes how he was able to see Jesus as the Messiah.
right here in this chapter and he had been walking with the Lord. He had been a disciple.
So you and I, we can be guilty of the same thing. We're walking with the Lord, but as we grow with him, we begin to see things in a new and a different way.
So what are the blind spots in your life?
In your group time today, I want to encourage you to be thinking,
My goodness, my goodness.
Are there areas in my life that I've grown stale or mundane?
Are there fresh habits that I need to look at
And begin to adopt
And maybe repeat in my life so that I can have a.
Fresh relationship with him. He wants to know you as a son.
If he wants to know you as a daughter, he's not looking for you to check the list.
He's looking for you to love him.
And to depend on him for life.
I also want to challenge you to be thinking
Who in your circle?
can be your accountability partner. And what do I mean by that? I mean somebody that you invite into your life
where you say, you can ask me any question you want.
If you see a habit or a practice or a thing that needs to change, I'm asking you to help me. I'm asking you to pray for me and I am going to pray for you.
or you. So this type of accountability and this type of relationship is a strategic relationship that you've got to invite in your life. You can't wait for it to happen. You've got to invite it.
Invite it in so that you can see your life grow. So in your group time today, I pray that you're able to open up and begin to evaluate and analyze and adopt these practices.
This is it. God bless you. Thank you.